good afternoon everyone today I'd like
to talk about the early snowfalls that
have opened the ski resorts in Europe
six weeks early 50-years snows in moscow
and meter deep amounts all along in the
cup chukka Peninsula after typhoon Nuri
collapsed into a 924 millibar low
let's take a look in the Environment
Canada snow departure depth right below
the Canadian flag you'll notice all
those dark blue and purple dots that's
where the heaviest snowfalls are
occurring across Eurasia and the global
snow lab here lists the snow cover
anomalies through 2014 again it's in an
upward trend like we saw for the fall
snowfalls in the United States North
America there and of course there are
heavy snowfall events happening
everywhere across Northern Europe right
now in Russia first one I'll bring to
your attention the Brenner motorway look
at the amount of trucks that are out
early now think about this these trucks
are out there three to six weeks early
and they will be I wouldn't say daily
but at least two to three times a week
now this is going to add on to the road
budget for the fuel the overtime for the
crews the salt all these types of things
and they're going to be later out into
the spring season as well so you can add
another six weeks of use for these
trucks and road crews you know you can
have a lot of states municipalities
countries will have to start budgeting
for increased road maintenance and also
keeping the utilities up the
infrastructure grid up two meters of
snowfall in Turkey in the heaviest place
the average was around 20 inches almost
two feet or 50 centimeters around artvin
36 villages were were snowed in there
these are first season snowfalls look at
the depth of this let's take a closer
look this should be flurries or
sprinkles or some kind of light dusting
it should not be so deep to bury a car
and strand motorists when they need to
come to get rescued that's that's a Wow
you know look at that picture this looks
very similar what happened in Tennessee
about the same snow depth as well so it
seems to be an emerging pattern around
the northern hemisphere speaking of
Europe let's take a look in the snow
they always have really good ideas and
articles about where the snows falling a
couple of their latest posts talking
about how heavy the snows are and
allowed the ski resorts across the
northern outs to open three to six weeks
early take a look here at how much snow
there actually is fresh powder right
there and speaking of the fresh powder
somebody put this on the Rosetta comet
notice the hata take a look at the
Rosetta comment if you get a chance
mixing that up with the powder there and
it is snowing so much everywhere that
you can ski early art Finland there used
to snow but 40,000 customers lose power
and their early winter snows in November
six to minus 25 degrees Celsius let's
take a look here at the Fahrenheit
Celsius converter 25 below Celsius is 13
below zero Fahrenheit Finland already
getting really cold up there now as he's
vortex lows swing off the United States
they're going to push right over into
Europe and it should just be a
continuous wave going across and pound
down somewhere over in northern Eurasia
again or somewhere in central Eurasia
it'll just have this wave pattern
wasting around the entire season these
are the remnants of hurricane Gonzalo
the high wind forcing water fall
backwards off of the waterfalls it's a
pretty interesting video to watch guy
gets pretty close up there with that
high wind as well the wind storm swept
through the Swiss Alps that same storm
high winds heavy snows and this is the
global snow labs departure from normal
look what's happening over Russia so
let's take a look down you can notice
those nine or ten pixels in one square
right over the Moscow area snows are
much heavier than usual it's the
heaviest in the last 50 years that
they're experiencing right now again
notice it's that heavy thick wet
snowfall and really deep in the amounts
they're not just a dusting but easily
discernible how deep it is and this is
where we get into those negative
feedback loops on the economy Great
Lakes shipping Road deliveries rail
deliveries lack of electricity to
factories due to downed power lines all
these are going to start to have a more
pronounced effect this year as it really
does start to affect the global
infrastructure and to see how we can
cope with these heavy snows because next
year it's going to actually be more than
it is this year if the trend continues
this trend will continue until 2030 or
2035 downward colder every year which
would affect crops which makes wheat and
corn futures quite a good play natural
gas this is a map of the pipelines
coming out of Russia
you can see how integral and how
important certain locations in the
buffer zone between your
are to both sides and continuing over to
East Russia that come chat cup and
insula and bloody bowl stoke they were
just pounded with the remnants of
typhoon Nuri the super storm that's been
downgraded into the lowest millibar
pressure for a non typhoon type storm
ever on the planet which is racing
toward Alaska creating 50-foot waves
nobody's talking about what happened in
eastern Russia but they were pelted with
over three feet of snow this is a better
look here see how deep the low just
strolled right up the center of the
peninsula there everything was buried in
snow on that and the reason for the
incredibly heavy snowfall was that
arctic bush that you can see here which
was forecast through the first week of
November colliding with that storm
system the remnants of Narita low
millibar at 924 millibars pushing
through thanks for watching and I hope
you see which way our climate is
starting to deviate in the winters now
with earlier starts and probably later
endings wetter fields for planting and
higher prices for your food coming now